# Structure 

R code for paper Armbruster and Reinert, 2023, "COVID-19 incidence in the Republic of Ireland:  A case study for network-based time series models"

### For citation: <br />
@article{armbruster2023covid,<br />
  title={COVID-19 incidence in the Republic of Ireland: A case study for network-based time series models},<br />
  author={Armbruster, Stephanie and Reinert, Gesine},<br />
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.06199},<br />
  year={2023}<br />
}

## Data
Folder Data includes the following datasets: <br />
* COVID-19_HPSC_County_Statistics_Historic_Data.csv: data set with daily cumulative COVID-19 incidence from Ordnance Survey Ireland, 2023 <br />
* ireland_covid_weekly.csv: data set after pre-processing <br />
* ireland_covid_weekly_2.csv: data with lag-2 COVID-19 incidences after pre-processing <br />
* ireland_shapefile.shp: shapefile for plotting network maps, generated by saving data downloaded from the GADM database <br />
* county_towns_ireland.csv: data set with coordinates for Irish counties from the Ireland Cities Database on simplemaps <br />
* Folder RObjects: contains networks (as GNAR and igraph objects) as well as subsetted data according to COVID-19 regulations <br />

## Functions
The file functions_paper.R includes all functions written to pre-process data, fit GNAR models, analyse and plot residuals etc. <br />
The files GNARdesign.R, GNARfit.R and NofNeighbours.R in the folder GNAR contain adapted GNAR functions. <br />

## Application
The file Data_processing.R performs some initial data exploration, the data aggregation to a weekly level and the necessary smoothing for extreme peaks in COVID-19 incidence. <br />
The file Data_processing_restrictions.R processes the data according to COVID-19 restrictions and summarises the datasets belonging to restricted and unrestricted pandemic phases. <br />
The COVID-19 networks are constructed in the file Network_construction.R. <br />
The GNAR models are fit to the restricted and unrestricted datasets, MASE values plotted and residuals testes in the file Model_fitting.R. <br />
The folder Figures contains all generated figures for the paper.

## Supplementary Material 
The file SM_Model_fitting_entire_datasets.R fits GNAR models to the entire dataset. <br />
The file SM_Model_fitting_subsets.R fits GNAR models to data subsets defined by official COVID-19 guidelines imposed by the Irish Government. <br />
The file SM_Simulation.R provides code to simulate data and reconstruct GNAR model coefficients.

 
